PR: Update release instructions to include localization updates (#12638)
spyder-ide/spyder: RELEASE.md

# Release

To release a new version of Spyder you need to follow these steps:

## Localization updates

> * Install [gettext-helper](https://github.com/spyder-ide/gettext-helpers) from source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install [gettext-helpers](https://github.com/spyder-ide/gettext-helpers) from source.
```

> * Update `*.pot` and `*.po` files to update translation strings using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update `*.pot` and `*.po` files to update translation strings by following these steps:
```

  * Run `spyder-gettext scane spyder` to update localization files.
  * Create and merge a new PR with these updated files
  * Request translators to update the translation strings on https://crowdin.com/project/spyder

> * Close the automatic translation bot PR `translate/<branch-name>` and delete the branch to recreate the branch automatically without conflicts (if any).

Reviewer: Please post below the command to delete the branch.

Author: I did from the github interface

Author: I can add a comment saying that and https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/branches

* Wait for the new `translate/<branch-name>` PR to be created by the `spyder-bot`.

> * Update `*.mo` files to update translation strings using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update `*.mo` files to update translation strings by following these steps:
```

> * Run `spyder-gettext compile spyder` to update localization binary files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Run `spyder-gettext compile spyder` to update localization binary files.
```

# Release

To release a new version of Spyder you need to follow these steps:

## Localization updates

* Install [gettext-helpers](https://github.com/spyder-ide/gettext-helpers) from source.

* Update `*.pot` and `*.po` files to update translation strings by following these steps:

>   * Run `spyder-gettext scane spyder` to update localization files.

Reviewer 2: `scane` or `scan`?

Author: Typo! `scan`. good catch!

  * Create and merge a new PR with these updated files
  * Once merged, the new strings are now available on [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/spyder).
  * Request translators to update the translation strings on [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/spyder). This process can take between a couple of days to a couple of weeks depending on the amount of strings to translate and we need to wait before proceeding to the next step.

* Close the automatic translation bot PR `translate/<branch-name>`,
* Delete the branch to recreate the branch automatically without conflicts (if any)
  * Using this command: `git push origin --delete translate/<branch-name>`.
  * Or, on the [github website](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/branches)

* Wait for the new `translate/<branch-name>` PR to be created by the `spyder-bot`. This branch should be created within 10 minutes.

* Update `*.mo` files to update translation strings by following these steps:

  * Run `spyder-gettext compile spyder` to update localization binary files.

> * Update the translation PR `translate/<branch-name>` to include these files and squash all commits into 1 single commit. These commits will include the `*.pot`, `*.po` and `*.mo` file changes.

Reviewer 2: I assume `translate/<branch-name>` needs to be merged into `<branch-name>`. Perhaps should this be mentioned explicitly.

Author: Agreed!

> * Update the translation PR `translate/<branch-name>` to include these files and squash all commits into 1 single commit. These commits will include the `*.pot`, `*.po` and `*.mo` file changes. Once this has been accomploished merge the PR. Localization updates are now ready.

Reviewer 2: accomploished -> accomplished

Author: FixeD!
